INTRO
In the last week, I interacted with my friends on a laptop through an application called Discord whilst playing a video game together. By making using the Discord application's voice call function, I was able to communicate with my friends during the video game without any delays. This interaction required the use of voice data as well as the pheripherals to collect the data, the hardware such as the Central Processing Unit within the laptop and the software such as Discord installed on the laptops. Alongside the Internet, these computing technologies were needed to allow for this interaction to be possible. 

DATA REPRESENTATION
Data such as digital audio files are used to allow for real-time conversations between my friends on Discord. Discord uses the microphone to collect audio data of our voices. This audio data that was collected by the microphone is then converted into the Opus audio format via the built-in Opus codec within Discord. The codec can convert the analogue audio signals into digital forms as well as optimising the digital audio files for the bandwith of the network connection through constant or variable bitrate encoding. The converted audio files is then sent to the Discord server and members within the voice call can have the files decoded by the Opus codec to be played through their headphones or speakers for them to hear in real-time. The Opus audio format codes speech and general audio into a single format that is low-latency, enabling real-time communication and being low-complexity enough for low-end processors. 

COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE
The laptop we used to play video games and interact with each other had a Central Processing Units(CPUs), Random-Access Memory(RAM) sticks and a Graphics Processing Units(GPUs). With peripherals such as a microphone and a mouse, these hardware allowed for a seamless experience for me and my friends to play a video game together whilst communicating with each other on a Discord voice call. The CPU which functions as the brain of the computer handled the processing of the digital audio data that was being taken in using the microphone as the input device. The CPU handled the encoding and decoding of the audio files being transferred and received to allow for seamless communication between me and my friends. The RAM provided quick access to the digital audio data and temporary storage of essential information, aiding in establishing a smooth and uninterrupted exchange of audio data between me and my friends. The GPU allowed for smooth rendering of the graphics on the laptop screen, allowing for a smooth gaming experience, in turn improving the user experience by allowing for a smoother overall visual experience such as seeing graphics in higher definition or the smoother visuals when using the laptop. The peripherals such as microphone and mouse helps in improving the user experience with the microphone helping to capture the audio data clearer while the mouse helps in the user experience by allowing an easier movement of the pointer on the laptop monitor. The speakers built into the laptop allowed for the audio from the game to be able to be heard as well as to hear what my friends were saying. 

OPERATING SYSTEMS & APPLICATION
The Windows Operating System installed on our laptops facilitated the usage of applications such as Discord as an intermediary to allow us to use our devices to communicate with each other. The Windows Operating System provided a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that allows for users like me to easily select applications to use easily and manages the resources on my laptop efficiently to complete tasks that I set. Discord, by making use of Application Programming Interfaces(APIs) available on Windows Operating System, was able to interact with the operating system to ensure for compatibility across different devices as well as to optimizing its performance in the Windows Operating System. The operating system additionally provided the necessary framework for Discord to manage the resources and handle our data inputs such as our voices. The operating system also helps to set up the network that allows me and my friends to play the video game online together and lets the applications to share the data collected to the relevant servers or devices. 

NETWORK AND THE INTERNET
The Internet is what enabled this interaction to occur, as Discord makes use Internet Protocols to facilitate communication. By making use of Transmission Control Protocol(TCP), Discord allows for text based communications that I use on a regular basis. However, in this interaction, Discord is using the User Datagram Protocol(UDP), which allows for seamless audio conversations as it is much faster than the TCP and there is no overhead of having to establish and maintain a connection between devices for the Discord call. 

CONCLUSION
Thus, this interaction required a multitude of computational technologies such as the Opus codec within the Discord application to be able to convert the analogue signals collected by the microphone into a digital file format that can be sent to a Discord server via the Internet such that it can be shared across a multitude of devices that can then decode the audio file and play it through a speaker or a headphone such that the user can hear it in real-time without any delay. The Windows Operating System made it easy for me and my friends to select the applications that we wanted to open as well as provide the necessary frameworks and APIs for the applications that we use to function. The hardware within our laptops allowed the operating system and the application to be able to run as the CPU handled the tasks it was given and allocating them effectively, providing us with a pleasant user expierence.  


REFERENCES:
Ars Staff    -    Sep 12, 2012 6:59 pm UTC. “Newly Standardized Opus Audio Codec Fills Every Role from Online Chat to Music.” Ars Technica, 12 Sept. 2012, arstechnica.com/gadgets/2012/09/newly-standardized-opus-audio-codec-fills-every-role-from-online-chat-to-music/. 
Meilinaeka. “The Definition of Windows Operating System: History, Functions, and Features.” Direktorat Pusat Teknologi Informasi, 28 Apr. 2023, it.telkomuniversity.ac.id/en/windows-operating-system/#:~:text=Managing%20Computer%20Resources%3A%20The%20primary,printing%20documents%20using%20these%20resources. 
“Opus (Audio Format).” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 5 Jan. 2024, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opus_(audio_format). 
“Opus Codec.” Opus Interactive Audio Codec, opus-codec.org/. Accessed 5 Jan. 2024. 